have on the line the mysterious and
enigmatic youtuber hey mu Dan most of
you knows my girlfriend Melissa so
Melissa I just finished doing a long and
a really constructive and useful
conversation with my mom my mom was
really on her AGame
she was really sharp and we talked about
a lot of what's going on in my life
short term and long term and now about
you on the line so part of what he's
doing this conversation is summarized
well it's my mom what I'm planning to do
now what my issues options and
opportunities are as I look at it next
year
um but partly this is a chance for you
to get on the microphone this is long
distance melissa is in DC test you need
she's in the United States of America
where's I'm in Taiwan right now so you
know Melissa I got the question well
maybe only twice maybe only twice but I
got the question
don't you think Melissa has her own side
to the story and you know you and I have
talked about this stuff so much like
this wasn't a situation where I was
coming on the internet to talk about our
relationship in a vacuum or like it with
any of this was coming so you know
obviously you have your own YouTube
channel you also have access to my
youtube channel I am gonna start this
conversation by saying I don't think you
have your own side of the story I think
we've talked about the issues within the
relationship so much that we share one
story that's my general feeling about
two years that's right yeah that's a
good thing you just dwelled on for half
a second you know Chris Rock the
comedian he has a routine I don't know
if you saw this with me where he says
like his own parents and grandparents
they'd work like a 12 hour shift at the
factory and they literally they only saw
each other on the weekend like when they
saw each other on Saturday was like oh
hey so what did you do this week they
were complete strangers with their
full-time jobs you know at least
like you know I see this situation with
my brother right close to work I mean
basically they only spend time together
with their kids maybe like an hour to at
night along you know that is a typical
situation for a lot of relationships so
that the scope basically had like ten
years time in a relationship that most
people haven't like you know yeah
agree and I wanted it that way too I
mean you know when you and I started the
relationship I said to you openly like
okay so here are these other things I'm
working on and I'm putting them on the
Shelf like I'm throwing like this is not
my priority now like my priority for the
first year we were together was not
learning Chinese was not working on
university applications or stuff was it
my my priority for the first year was
working on this relationship you know
and we did that in a surreal tropical
setting walking up and down the mountain
remember there's the stone staircase
going up the mountain with the mango
trees so we've that place yeah yeah well
right once we left it was like God now
we're in this yeah I mean I know Pacific
Northwest is not freezing cold but like
we had just been this tropical paradise
[Laughter]
okay Canada is cold in other ways too
it's cold culturally it's cold it's cold
economically even you know yeah so
anyway yeah we we got to know each other
extremely well spending really 24 hours
a day 7 days a week together and having
a lot of deep personal conversation it's
a good point you mentioned some couples
it may be that they're busy with work or
maybe that they're busy just with
raising kids like you may be in the room
together with the kid playing with toys
but you're not talking about history or
politics or you know or your sex life or
whatever you know there's stuff you're
not talking about in front of the kids
so yeah we've we really developed a
pretty profound basis relationship
at that stage the first two years anyway
I was just saying I don't think at this
point we really have two different
stories about the relationship I mean
when you're calm you kind of agree with
me about 98.5 percent of things and when
you're not when you're screaming at me
kind of nothing you say counts anyway
because ten minutes later you regret it
and you say I wish I'd sometimes 10
minutes sometimes if you're really angry
it's not stick to two or three hours to
calm down but you know we don't really
have differences of opinion about about
most of this stuff yeah I would agree
with that
I really would like I mean yeah she's
right
I you know I'm a different person so of
course my perspective on things it's
different
I say you know I say that I had a
relationship before you but it wasn't
you know I wasn't a great of a partner
and I didn't learn how to be a good
partner in a lot of ways and I think
some of these characteristics played out
in this relationship too anyway yeah
well you know you know what's
interesting but both of both of our
parents are all of our parents we have
three parents do if my father's deceased
but you know none of them are
comfortable talking about the importance
of marijuana in your background so I'm
not saying this to shame you I'm not
saying it's did derail the conversation
but you know my mother asked me today
which is completely unexpected to have
in those sessions you said you know like
ISIL what what really is your position
on on marijuana and alcohol and you know
she probably the last time she talked to
me about that was like 20 years ago so
you know and I talked about I also do
this is something I've talked about in
YouTube videos and those YouTube videos
are actually quite popular and
influential like a lot of people care
about my opinion about why I don't drink
alcohol for what every so we talked
about that from - a bunch of different
angles but you could see I mean for her
generation it's really hard to wrap your
head around marijuana
I guess because there have been so many
lies on both sides but I do think one of
the crucial things is that you
through your last your big long-term
relationship before me your long-term
boyfriend you guys shared an apartment
and everything you went through it
smoking marijuana and marijuana if you
even just look at the behavioral effect
on somebody how it affects their moods
how they how they manage their anger and
thinks now there was also there were
questions of brain damage and other
problems in marijuana um but if you even
just think about the behavioral impacts
on mood and coping mechanisms and para
bonding and how people bid on an
intellectual development and curiosity
and reading and learning it really is it
really is a big big deal and I think
that's the kind of unspoken tragedy that
set you up set you up to fail when you
got into this relation with me and said
you have to fail with a lot of the
stressful situations in your in your
life yeah I think there's a lot to talk
about on this issue but I will just say
yeah for your mother's generation it's
you know hard to wrap their head around
the world marijuana but you know for my
my older brothers I was just talking to
them you know I was talking to one of my
brothers about you know how much I
regret having used marijuana that during
these crucial years when I should have
been able to develop coping strategies
that weren't relying on some kind of
drug you know and he was like it was no
big deal you know you were just it's not
like you were dependent on it and it was
that's the point but that's I mean
dependency I was like well I mean in
some way that was my day because you
know my boyfriend worked kind of odd
hours who get home at 11:00 at night and
we have one hour before I had to go to
sleep and we you know look forward to
gang getting together and smoking weed
before fell asleep you know like that
was really our relationship and it was
influenced by drugs every time we were
together so yeah is it was a huge in
fact how I saw relationships what and
just just really briefly I mean you know
it's funny the people
want to admit the behavioral
significance of that if you know
somebody who is obsessively into
knitting you know who spends all their
spare time knitting and then you say
well you know my friend my friend Chuck
he's kind of a weird guy spends all his
time knitting and as a result he's kind
of anti-social withdrawn it doesn't
really make eye contact with you when
you know he has these weird behaviors
and I think it's related to the fact
that he you know when he gets home from
work he spends almost time knitting
nobody would find that hard to believe
but people have this kind of phony
skepticism like oh how can you possibly
say that marijuana and playing video
games says these effects on people well
at least to the same extent that some of
these other behaviors you know change
people you know I think marijuana to an
even greater extent because it's also
affecting you you know chemically you
know even if you only look I mean you
know the same way painkillers and
caffeine and everything else I think I
think people have to kind of drop this
phony phony skepticism about the
profound effect that the marijuana has
on people's lives including
developmentally you know yeah and of
course those were no it is that we're
really crucial for that time to you know
develop who I'm gonna be my adulthood
how that handle adversity and struggles
just minor intervene Ian says am I gonna
freak out you know scream you know drink
drink to take the edge off you know I
think and when talking to my brother's
to like I think they just don't really
like spending time with me you know I
didn't say anything but I walked and he
has this bar set up with a lot of
different types of alcohol because he
likes to make cocktails and that's his
jam uh and he you know without saying
anything he said you know I feel like an
alcoholic with you and like I feel like
you're judging me here and you know
because you don't drink at all and you
know why don't you drink what's what's
going on and you know brought back
memories
like in the past when I've been with
when I've been at celebrations with him
especially when I was younger like you
know my graduation party from high
school basically was force-feeding the
alcohol and I got so sick that night and
you know I think that's that's really
been the pattern really yeah it's kind
of it reminded me of this trauma I never
really wanted to drink alcohol it's
always just been something like to fit
in or like because everybody else is
doing it I know I know it's such a
common trope you know it's just pure
pressures people feels there really is
people feel uncomfortable right people
feel uncomfortable themselves and they
they want to drug you up so that they
don't have to feel uncomfortable on this
kind of thing is it's a cycle of
suffering so look coming back coming
back to the question of us kind of not
having two separate stories I think the
other thing that means some people get
it some people don't
is that these situations where you kind
of exploded and started yelling at me
it wasn't a situation where like you and
I were having a fight about something it
wasn't like oh well I want to go to
Japan and you want to go to tell one
that would be a good hypothetical
example where a couple would have a
fight like you have two different things
and then you're fighting over what
you're gonna do like a lot of these
situations I'm gonna keep it vague but
you remember there was one time we went
to a donut store together vegan donut
store and I got you a vegan donuts and I
was actually being really nice and sweet
and loving you and you were a little bit
sad and I was being encouraging to you
and saying you know I was I took you to
this dollar store and bought you these
vegan donuts and you know we weren't we
weren't having a fight about anything
and we weren't really talking about any
kind of deep or significant you know
topic you know I was really just kind of
cheer you scrunch you up and then you
know you you you very suddenly laid into
really you know attacking me so I I'm
not saying this to complain and by the
way that that was so devastating me I
was so emotionally shocking to me that
occasion I mean yeah yeah I know I know
but but I mean that that that occasional
that was one of the times when I talk to
you about breaking up with you I so look
how can you expect me to deliver me an
email just saying you failed yeah you
know when you got back to the apartment
I was weeping on the couch and you said
yeah from my perspective you just need
to pack your bags you know that I had a
horrible meltdown literally banging my
head against the floor like you know
like I was really having a complete
breakdown but the two things at once are
fair okay go ahead yeah in spending more
time with my family recently it is
really a shame to see and talking with
my brother I wrote about our family
dynamics growing up and basically our
dysfunctional family even though on the
appearance on the surface level the
appearance of our family is like you
know really well put together and stuff
and you know there was a lot of
dysfunction in what was displayed to me
in terms of how a relationship should
functions you know it's sad to me to be
seeing my parents and seeing some of the
same things it from my end
repeating and recognizing that okay this
is partly where my fav your classroom
you know and you know you know that was
obvious to me you know I've just always
been an extremist type of person but you
know you're right I take they go all the
way crazy just kind of lose my mind for
10 minutes and then seem to get back
down earth well from the first time I
met your parents I could see the roots
of life see you know you know for the
first time I met them was like okay well
here's where some of the here's some of
this comes from where I got any kind of
emotion with just anger like okay you're
you're feeling sad about something or
dejected okay just be pissed off that's
that's gonna help you cope rate anger
anger is like the Philosopher's Stone of
emotion so you guys
any other any other emotion gets
redirected to be expressed as anger and
all emotions coming in are reinterpreted
as anger because anger is what's safe to
deal with whereas vulnerability isn't
isn't safe deal there are other just
other kinds of emotions there something
yeah but I was gonna say is you know um
I think this is why we don't have like
two different versions of the story cuz
the conflicts we've had it's not like
afterwards you're saying oh well I
wanted to go to Japan and you wanted to
go to Taiwan and we fought about it and
I'm still like I still disagree with you
or you didn't understand me it's really
not like that it's really like you know
it's it's just this really abrupt like
dislocation in the relationship and I'm
just saying I'm leaving it completely
babe I'm not gonna stay but like really
what you said to me after we walked
through that darkness tour like it
really was too bad I mean I think people
who watch this YouTube channel know like
I'm not that sensitive like me it's not
like you know it's not like a few harsh
words would ruin the relationship but it
you really can be you know that extreme
with you and totally sudden and totally
unprovoked and that's also why
afterwards it's not like we're in the
position of saying like oh well this is
Melissa's side of the story and this is
my side of the story once you've calmed
down you look back at it you completely
agree that this was like a needless
unprovoked thing or or you know I mean
sometimes even if it is in response to
the circumstances that like no grown
adults can think that's a good response
sir so I just say we're not really we
don't we don't have any kind of
lingering conflict afterwards it's just
like okay so how does the less you move
forward I do and that's you know that's
why that's why I've taken you back again
again yeah I know yeah I see your point
yeah okay so any well I was just saying
that cuz that's the form that a lot of
the questions came in from the from the
audience as so you know
say some say some good things but the
right I'll say one one bad thing
the one bad thing is just kind of funny
because I just was talking to my mom but
I mean you know babe you know I've said
to you before you got the job for this
relationship not because you're the
smartest or the strongest of the tallest
or something else I mean you know there
there's always there's always gonna be
someone who can benchpress more than you
by the way I thought I taught Melissa
how to do weight lifting that was I
wasn't just a Chinese teacher when she
was first learning Chinese also I also
talked it through how to lift weights
and stuff we didn't we did a lot of that
personal growth together too in a very
literal sense but you know you got the
job because you know you can love me I
mean that really the fundamentals rate
for every relationship is is loving the
other person and being loving and not I
think I think I think it's worth saying
that you can because you know one of my
professors was really big on this idea
of like being being lovable at being in
intrinsic oh you know it's not everyone
wants to put up with my you
know not not everybody I mean really cuz
you know I've had other other
girlfriends even like whatever like the
book I'm currently reading or like you
know I say to you oh you know I just
read this interesting thing about the
history of ancient Rome and I hadn't
thought of it that way before
and you really you're really happy to be
with someone like that someone who's
telling you something about history and
politics of ancient Rome you know out of
the blue for no reason there are some
people like yeah what the you know
you know what you I want to buy
designer shoes there's something you
know like there were people for whom
this is just not what they want to live
with intellectually or aesthetically but
you know also you know emotionally I
mean you know I think this is gonna
sound kind of weird but I think you even
kind of appreciate like you know my
emotional problems that you like
spending time with me you like talking
about the sadness in my life with me
like the the non intellectual side you
know so when I say like you can love me
I think there are a lot of those those
kind of factors too as opposed to just
find it boring or meaningless or being
pissed off that or feeling like I'm
wasting your time talking about those
stuff you
really positively appreciate enjoy that
that times been with me yes for sure
right that's a unique qualification and
like I want somebody that will challenge
me to keep learning and to have
something to say in these situations you
know oh well I think I think like some
of my family members they're just like
they kind of can't believe that like
that I'm so different than them that I
would be interested in a relationship
like this like they would like what'd
you say what'd you say they'd be like
are what the time at like why
are you my to care about this like
that's how they can't understand that
like I'm just a different kind of person
and that's what I want you know that's
that's a huge part of what I would like
out of a relationship like I in so many
ways I feel like your parents had some
intellectual abbreviation for me you
remember we once briefly sat down and
they had the TV show Jeopardy playing TV
quiz show
I have not seen a single episode that
show in like 15 years if ever like I've
probably seen a couple of minutes of the
show once more than 50 years ago but I
do I do the answers to a lot of the
questions like my parents are like
amazed that some of the things that you
know like like they've told that to me
they're like I can't believe this guy
like knows so much about history you
know like ya know what they absolutely
do appreciation for you know like I was
trying to like talk to it talk to talk
it through my brother like like no I
really love him like you know like I I
really like being with him all the time
so anyway thank you so much Lou side of
that I mean I'm just I know it sounds
really simple but I mean I think you
sometimes kind of short term forget you
know I know it's stupid to say but you
sometimes do forget like how much you
love me and how much you you don't want
to be
I I don't forget actually Melissa I
usually don't buy it anyway so the news
I have from my mom is you know basically
you know she was really sharp today she
really had her act together but she
really said to me that I have to start
thinking about my current situation with
YouTube and the internet being really
the main thing I do and that I should
appreciate that that's something I can
take anywhere so if I do have to
relocate to France or if I do have to
relocate the United States you know that
I should really start appreciating
upside of that and that is true in the
last month I doubled my income on
YouTube or more and yes yeah yeah and I
could double it again in the next month
and that income is significant relative
to my cost of living here in Taiwan
because rent is very very interesting
yeah it is not so significant compared
to the cost of having a six-year-old
child growing up in France and my
ex-wife and those costs but as you know
my mother is gallantly willing to pay
for those costs if it when they come up
she will still not admit to me how much
money she's spending on our current
lawyer
my current divorce so I think he's a
very a very expensive lawyer and you
know we'll we'll see what he could do so
I just say that's the long story short
is you know my mom's guidance and input
on that is you know make that the main
thing build on what's positive there and
she says you know appreciate your
position as a public intellectual and
you know I mean she's right in a lot of
ways it's really about given that
University of Victoria was garbage given
that University of Toronto was garbage
given that I should include here also
University of Regina and First Nations
University all the universities my life
you know kind of what now and she and I
both agree that I'm really in many ways
in a better situation than many of my
personal friends in life who've had PhDs
and that there's not there's not a lot
to be seen there that's positive so the
other track to try to develop on as you
know is being a teacher and we talked
about that and so you know one
possibility is that I make some money by
teaching over the Internet which can pay
about 20 US dollars now or a lot of
websites are paying less if you were
paying more that'd be one way to
supplement income is doing anesthesia in
the internet there's also English
teaching to French students specifically
where I could be building up my ability
in French a bit and trying to do for a
French clientele and that can obviously
move and could go back forth and friends
and the other question is I think
practically what about getting
credentials as a formal school teacher
and if I wanted to do that I said to my
mom she was really stunned I said that
said well you know the real opportunity
is like Louisiana you know and she knows
she knows everybody everywhere though I
mean like you know when soon as you say
Louisiana she starts naming the current
governor and the current head of the
Board of Education Department and she
knows elite people in government in all
these places and she's like oh yeah just
last week I was having dinner with
so-and-so the head of whatever you know
so she knows these places kind of in
South America I'd call her interesting
yeah you know some people have parents
who sit at home watching jeopardy on TV
and some people have parents like she's
an interesting interesting character
yeah anyway um so yeah so you know
Louisiana the last time I looked into it
they were one of the states where they
really said look if you have a
university degree and you're not a
criminal and you're not racist against
black people come here or sign up and
we'll train you to be part of the
education system you can become now
Louisiana may or may not be a unique
opportunity it's the best opportunity I
know of that way but that's much more
positive than for
sample spending $80,000 on tuition to
try to get a get a university credential
in Michigan and credential that's not a
really length of employment so that's
that's broad brush strokes what it what
the strategic discussion my future comes
down to a lot of what I had to say back
to my mom is a look with this lawyer we
do not know what's gonna happen next
at any point he's completely useless
that way in terms of answering questions
about the future so at anytime I may be
told hey pack pack a backpack and go to
France like tomorrow so you know what I
mean that has to be and it's like well I
have to kind of be prepared to see my
daughter or go to court kind of sort of
throw up ahead but obviously there's
positive as well as negative there and
that connects to the temptation other
kinds of teaching jobs because you know
it's possible someone in Beijing or
someone in Taipei will make me an offer
that's too good to refuse you know I've
gotten some job offers lately but when
it's like two thousand US dollars a
month I say keep talking it's just it's
just not enough you know and a lot of
them are less I forget the last one who
do you think was maybe 1200 years old
you know some of them will be quite low
paid but some but some of them are like
four thousand US dollars a month and so
on and at the cost of living here in
Asia yeah it's like okay now I'm
interested um but as you know the
problem is with that kind of job unlike
YouTube or unlike teaching on the
Internet I can't just stop and go to
France to see my daughter at any point
or stop and go to France for the court
case at any point which is kind of what
I need to do so that is interesting it
turns out my mother is really supportive
of this idea and you know part of it was
she did she doesn't watch my YouTube
videos regularly she really doesn't but
she watched the video I just did that
has Aristotle in the title Aristotle and
Andrew yang you know and you know I mean
my mother listens to a lot of lectures
at a high level I mean literally she
listens to lectures from present
some prime ministers of different
countries she listens to lectures from
you know university rectors and
university professors and experts in
okay look really within any given month
she's hearing lectures from all kinds of
very accomplished people and she saw
that video and I think she's correct I
mean you and I both know it it's she's
like wow look you know you're really
talented at this this is really you know
this kind of you know lecture about
history and politics and economics this
is really where your your talent lies
this is the way for you to make a mark
in the world and you have discussed this
with her and I both you've discussed
both and we all know if I go back to a
second-rate University in Canada try to
get at ma try to PhD in a lot of ways
that's gonna be a waste of my time
compared to what I could be doing even
just on YouTube and even just stacking
up books just doing original research
for YouTube as serious okay so babe you
and I can keep talking but I'm gonna
press stop now I think my viewers will
appreciate having having heard your
voice okay
why you wanna say something I stopped I
love you bub oh I really do and you know
I know it sometimes sounds mean when I
say I moved into this apartment for you
and I'm doing this stuff for you it's
not that I'm putting a guilt trip on you
I set you the other day on the phone so
you know this is romantic may not sound
romantic in the context of talking about
of these things but I mean this this was
a romantic plan to move to this small
town in Taiwan and you know given
another chance and you know I think you
and I learning Chinese together or
practicing and improving our Chinese
together I think that is also really a
romantic way to build a foundation for a
relationship to last forever and for
both of us you know that's a project we
I'm gonna push that good to my audience
goodbye